tf2 Tutorial: Timestamp and time travel tf2 tutorials (Python) (#1770)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Tf2/Time-Travel-With-Tf2-Py.rst

.. _TimeTravelWithTf2Py:

Time travel with tf2 (Python)
=============================

**Goal:** Learn about advanced time travel features of tf2.

**Tutorial level:** Advanced

**Time:** 10 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

> In the previous tutorial, we discussed the basics of tf2 and time.

Reviewer: link to previous tutorial

Author: solved in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1770/commits/a57f3ff489bf747e63e3b161ad96b97e508a13b7

> This tutorial will take this one step further and expose one of the most powerful tf2 tricks.

Reviewer 2: I would like less mystery here. 
```suggestion
This tutorial will take us one step further and expose a powerful tf2 tricks: <what the trick is>.
<which means...>. <This is useful when...>.
```

And then some background information on the problem and why it is useful.

It's cool to derive the trick, but I rather tell them, derive it, and tell them again.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1770/commits/57aaf3856b3b5683946e708e882eb638202bac80. Does it sound better that way?

Time travel
-----------

So let's go back to where we ended in the previous tutorial `Learning about tf2 and time <LearningAboutTf2AndTimePy>`.
First, go to your ``learning_tf2_py`` package.

Now, instead of making the second turtle go to where the carrot is now, we will make the second turtle go to where the first carrot was 5 seconds ago.
Edit the code on lines 75-80 in the ``turtle_tf2_listener.py`` file to:

.. code-block:: python

    when = self.get_clock().now() - rclpy.time.Duration(seconds=5.0)
    trans = self._tf_buffer.lookup_transform(
        to_frame_rel,
        from_frame_rel,
        when,
        timeout=Duration(seconds=1.0))

So now, if you would run this, what would you expect to see?
Definitely, during the first 5 seconds, the second turtle would not know where to go because we do not yet have a 5-second history of the first turtle.
But what after these 5 seconds? Let's just give it a try:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 launch learning_tf2_py turtle_tf2_demo.launch.py

.. image:: turtlesim_delay1.png

> Is your turtle driving around uncontrollably like in this screenshot? Let try to understand why this is happening.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Is your turtle driving around uncontrollably like in this screenshot? Let's try to understand why this is happening.
```

Author: Solved in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1770/commits/57aaf3856b3b5683946e708e882eb638202bac80

#. In our code we asked tf2 the following question: "What was the pose of ``carrot1`` 5 seconds ago, relative to ``turtle2`` 5 seconds ago?". This means we are controlling the second turtle based on where it was 5 seconds ago as well as where the first turtle was 5 seconds ago.

#. However, what we really want to ask is: "What was the pose of ``carrot1`` 5 seconds ago, relative to the current position of the ``turtle2``?".

Advanced API for lookup_transform
---------------------------------

> So how can we ask tf2 a question like that?

Reviewer 2: I think that you should restate the question here. I'm not a fan of referring to the question implicitly between sections.

Author: Solved in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1770/commits/57aaf3856b3b5683946e708e882eb638202bac80

> To do so, we will use an advanced API that gives us the power to say explicitly when to acquire the required transformations.

Reviewer 2: What does 'required' refer to here?

Author: Does 'desired' sound better?

            target_time=rclpy.time.Time(),
            source_frame=from_frame_rel,
            source_time=when,
            fixed_frame='world',
            timeout=Duration(seconds=1.0))

The advanced API for ``lookup_transform_full()`` takes six arguments:

#. Target frame

#. The time to transform to

#. Source frame

#. The time at which source frame will be evaluated

#. The time at which we want to transform

#. Frame that does not change over time, in this case the ``world`` frame

#. Time to wait for the target frame to become available

To sum up, tf2 does the following in the background.
In the past, it computes the transform from the ``carrot1`` to the ``world``.
In the ``world`` frame, tf2 time travels from the past to now.
And at the current time, tf2 computes the transform from the ``world`` to the ``turtle2``.

Checking the results
--------------------

Let's run the simulation again, this time with the advanced time-travel API:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 launch learning_tf2_py turtle_tf2_demo.launch.py

.. image:: turtlesim_delay2.png

And yes, the second turtle is directed to where the first carrot was 5 seconds ago!

Summary
-------

> In this tutorial, you have seen the power of tf2, and its time travel features.

Reviewer 2: I understand that this feature exists, but I don't feel that I understand why it is powerful. It would be great to come up with some concrete examples of why this is useful.

Author: Solved in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1770/commits/8fba1bdb17b02b80af876d47a87c88ca4d889aea
